Kafka Connect is managed entirely through an HTTP REST API.
What's great about this,
is that it makes managing connectors as easy as making a single HTTP call.
The Kafka Connect API supports creating,
updating, deleting, and reading connector configuration.
It also has APIs for tracking the status of connectors and the tasks that make them up.
You can even stop, start,
and restart tasks from the API.
If you have access to the server or servers on which Kafka Connect is running,
you can add additional connector plugins while the
server's running and configure the server to load them.
The robustness of the Kafka Connect API means that you have
many options for managing and monitoring your Kafka connectors.
This is in part what makes Kafka Connect such a powerful tool.
One thing that's worth noting,
is that Kafka Connect itself does not necessarily
surface many logs or metrics for you to make use of.
So you'll want to make sure that you have a plan to get
this information so that you can keep your Kafka Connect plugins running well.